## Assignments and Projects

There will be no exams in this class. There will be four assignments spread across the semester: 



1. _Reading responses (due every week): _every week during the semester, there will be a reading response, designed to help you reflect on the readings and videos. We also recognize that adjusting to a new academic program can be  stressful. To ease some of your stress, _we will drop the response with the lowest grade_ at the end of the semester. Meaning that 11 of the 12 reading responses will count towards your final grade. 
2. _CHI paper review: _students are expected to choose two full-length (10+ pages) research  papers from the CHI 2022 or CHI 2023 conference. The two papers should be on a similar  topic (e.g., do not choose one paper on olfactory devices and another paper on visualization).  You should read the two papers and write up a three-page comparison of the papers in terms  of: 1) methodology, 2) results, and 3) writing style of the authors. You should also write about  4) your perceptions of the topic, and 5) what you think the next steps in future research on this  topic should be (your opinion, not the opinions of the paper authors). This assignment is due~~ in paper form at~~ to be submitted via [this form](https://forms.gle/xtqzg7vPQ6w6PT6d8) before class during Week 5. A template for the assignment is available in our shared Drive, as well as two examples of very well done papers from previous years.  You can access CHI papers through the ACM Digital Library ([https://dl.acm.org/](https://dl.acm.org/)). UMD has a  full license to use the ACM digital library, so if you are not on a campus IP address, you would  just need to login first at [https://www.lib.umd.edu/](https://www.lib.umd.edu/). As the first assignment of the semester, I  will grade this assignment more leniently than the others. I also strongly suggest contacting the (free!) Writing Center at [https://gradschool.umd.edu/graduate-school-writing-center](https://gradschool.umd.edu/graduate-school-writing-center) to get professional writing guidance - they are an amazing resource that can help you become a better writer, so take advantage! 
3. _Usability Evaluation: _You will be asked to do two forms of usability evaluation: 1) doing a usability test involving 5 users (any 5 users) attempting tasks remotely using remote usability testing software, and 2) an expert review on the same interface utilizing a set of heuristics (e.g.  Shneiderman’s 8 Golden Rules of Interface Design). You will need to report on the results of  each. The assignment is split into two separate deliverables on two separate dates. Templates for both assignments are available in our shared Drive. The expert review/heuristic review is due Week 9 online before class ~~ in paper form at class~~, and the usability testing deliverable is due online before class ~~ in paper form at class~~.
4. _Accessibility Testing: _You will be asked to do two forms of accessibility evaluation: 1) doing a  manual (expert) inspection of a web page utilizing the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines  (WCAG, which we will discuss in class), and 2) inspecting the same web page using an  automated accessibility testing tool. We will provide access to the automated accessibility  testing tool, free of charge. You will need to report on the results of each. Again, the assignment is split into two separate deliverables on two separate dates. Templates for both  assignments are available in our shared Drive. The manual inspection is due at class in paper form in Week 14,  and the usability testing deliverable is due online on December 15th by 11:59 pm.

